THRICE THE BRINDED CAT HATH MEWED.
THRICE, AND ONCE THE HEDGE-PIG WHINED.
THE HARPIER CRIES,
"'TIS TIME, 'TIS TIME."
'ROUND ABOUT THE CAULDRON GO,
IN THE POISONED ENTRAILS THROW.
TOAD, THAT UNDER COLD STONE DAYS AND NIGHTS HAS 31
SWELTERED VENOM SLEEPING GOT,
BOIL THOU FIRST IN THE CHARMED POT.
DOUBLE, DOUBLE, TOIL AND TROUBLE.
FIRE BURN AND CAULDRON BUBBLE.
FILLET OF A FENNY SNAKE, IN THE CAULDRON BOIL AND BAKE.
EYE OF NEWT.
TOE OF FROG. WOOL OF BAT.
AND TONGUE OF DOG.
ADDER'S FORK AND BLINDWORM'S STING.
LIZARD'S LEG AND HOWLET'S WING.
FOR A CHARM OF POWERFUL TROUBLE,
LIKE A HELL BROTH BOIL AND BUBBLE.
DOUBLE, DOUBLE, TOIL AND TROUBLE.
FIRE BURN...
AND CAULDRON BUBBLE.
SCALE OF DRAGON. TOOTH OF WOLF.
WITCH'S MUMMY.
MAW AND GULF OF THE RAVIN'D SALT-SEA SHARK.
ROOT OF HEMLOCK DIGGED IN THE DARK.
LIVER OF BLASPHEMING JEW.
GALL OF GOAT AND SLIPS OF YEW SLIVERED IN THE MOON'S ECLIPSE.
NOSE OF TURK AND TARTAR'S LIPS.
FINGER OF BIRTH-STRANGLED BABE DITCH-DELIVERED BY A DRAB.
MAKE THE GRUEL THICK AND SLAB.
ADD THERETO A TIGER'S CHAUDRON
FOR THE INGREDIENTS OF OUR CAULDRON.
DOUBLE, DOUBLE, TOIL AND TROUBLE.
FIRE BURN AND CAULDRON BUBBLE.
COOL IT WITH A BABOON'S BLOOD,
THEN THE CHARM IS FIRM AND GOOD.
BY THE PRICKING OF MY THUMBS,
SOMETHING WICKED THIS WAY COMES.
OPEN, LOCKS, WHOEVER KNOCKS!
[thunder rumbling]
HOW NOW,
YOU SECRET, BLACK, AND MIDNIGHT HAGS?
WHAT IS IT YOU DO?
A DEED WITHOUT A NAME.
I CONJURE YOU, BY THAT WHICH YOU PROFESS,
HOW E'ER YOU COME TO KNOW IT,
ANSWER ME.
THOUGH YOU UNTIE THE WINDS AND LET THEM FIGHT
AGAINST THE CHURCHES,
THOUGH THE YESTY WAVES CONFOUND AND SWALLOW NAVIGATION UP,
THOUGH BLADED CORN BE LODGED AND TREES BLOWN DOWN,
THOUGH CASTLES TOPPLE ON THEIR WARDERS' HEADS,
THOUGH PALACES AND PYRAMIDS
DO SLOPE THEIR HEADS TO THEIR FOUNDATIONS,
THOUGH THE TREASURE OF NATURE'S GERMENS TUMBLE ALL TOGETHER
EVEN TILL DESTRUCTION SICKEN, ANSWER ME TO WHAT I ASK YOU.
SPEAK.
DEMAND.
WE'LL ANSWER.
SAY, IF THOU'DST RATHER HEAR IT
FROM OUR MOUTHS, OR FROM OUR MASTERS'?
CALL 'EM. LET ME SEE 'EM.
POUR IN SOW'S BLOOD,
THAT HATH EATEN  HER NINE FARROW;
GREASE THAT'S SWEATEN  FROM THE MURDERER'S GIBBET
THROW INTO THE FLAME.
(first witch) COME HIGH OR LOW.
THYSELF AND OFFICE DEFTLY SHOW!
TELL ME, THOU UNKNOWN POWER--
HE KNOWS THY THOUGHT.
HEAR HIS SPEECH, BUT SAY THOU NAUGHT.
(apparition)  MACBETH.  MACBETH.  MACBETH.
BEWARE MACDUFF.  BEWARE THE THANE OF FIFE.
DISMISS ME.  ENOUGH.
THOU HAST HARPED MY FEAR ARIGHT.
BUT ONE WORD MORE--
HE WILL NOT BE COMMANDED.
HERE'S ANOTHER,
MORE POTENT THAN THE FIRST.
(second apparition)  MACBETH.  MACBETH.  MACBETH.
HAD I THREE EARS, I'D HEAR THEE.
BE BLOODY,  BOLD AND RESOLUTE.
LAUGH TO SCORN  THE POWER OF MAN,
FOR NONE OF WOMAN BORN  SHALL HARM MACBETH.
[gasps]
THEN LIVE, MACDUFF.
WHAT NEED I FEAR OF THEE?
BUT YET I'LL MAKE ASSURANCE DOUBLE SURE.
I'LL TAKE A BOND OF FATE: THOU SHALT NOT LIVE,
THAT I MAY TELL PALE-HEARTED FEAR IT LIES,
AND SLEEP IN SPITE OF THUNDER.
WHAT IS THIS THAT RISES LIKE THE ISSUE OF A KING,
AND WEARS UPON HIS BABY BROW
THE ROUND AND TOP OF SOVEREIGNTY?
(second witch) LISTEN, BUT SPEAK NOT TO 'T.
(third apparition)  BE LION-METTLED, PROUD,
AND TAKE NO CARE  WHO CHAFES,
WHO FRETS,  OR WHERE CONSPIRERS ARE:
MACBETH SHALL NEVER VANQUISHED  BE UNTIL GREAT BIRNAM WOOD
TO HIGH DUNSINANE HILL  SHALL COME AGAINST HIM.
[gasps]
THAT WILL NEVER BE.
WHO CAN IMPRESS THE FOREST,
BID THE TREE UNFIX HIS EARTHBOUND ROOT?
SWEET BODEMENTS!  GOOD!
REBELLION'S HEAD, RISE NEVER TILL THE WOOD OF BIRNAM RISE,
AND OUR HIGH-PLACED MACBETH SHALL LIVE THE LEASE OF NATURE,
PAY HIS BREATH TO TIME AND MORTAL CUSTOM.
YET MY HEART THROBS TO KNOW ONE THING.
TELL ME, IF YOUR ARTS CAN TELL SO MUCH,
SHALL BANQUO'S ISSUE EVER REIGN IN THIS KINGDOM?
SEEK TO KNOW NO MORE.
I WILL BE SATISFIED.
DENY ME THIS,
AND AN ETERNAL CURSE FALL UPON YOU!
SHOW.
(first witch)  SHOW HIS EYES,  AND GRIEVE HIS HEART.
COME LIKE SHADOWS,  SO DEPART.
THOU ART TOO LIKE THE SPIRIT OF BANQUO.
DOWN.
THY CROWN DOES SEAR MINE EYEBALLS.
AND THY HAIR, THOU OTHER GOLD-BOUND BROW,
IS LIKE THE FIRST.
A THIRD IS LIKE THE FORMER!
FILTHY HAGS,
WHY DO YOU SHOW ME THIS?
A FOURTH?
START, EYES!
WHAT, WILL THE LINE STRETCH OUT TO THE CRACK OF DOOM?
ANOTHER YET?
A SEVENTH?
I'LL SEE NO MORE!
AND YET THE EIGHTH APPEARS,
WHO BEARS A GLASS WHICH SHOWS ME MANY MORE.
AND SOME I SEE THAT TWOFOLD BALLS
AND TREBLE SCEPTRES CARRY.
HORRIBLE SIGHT!
WELL, NOW I SEE 'TIS TRUE,
FOR THE BLOOD-BOLTER'D BANQUO SMILES UPON ME,
AND POINTS AT THEM FOR HIS.
WHAT?
IS THIS SO?
(first witch) AYE, SIR. ALL THIS IS SO.
[shudders]
WHERE ARE THEY?
GONE!
LET THIS PERNICIOUS HOUR STAND AYE ACCURSED IN THE CALENDAR!
[thunder rumbling]
MY FORMER SPEECHES HAVE BUT HIT YOUR THOUGHTS,
WHICH CAN INTERPRET FURTHER.
ONLY I SAY THINGS HAVE BEEN STRANGELY BORNE.
THE GRACIOUS DUNCAN WAS PITIED OF MACBETH.
MARRY, HE WAS DEAD.
AND THE RIGHT VALIANT BANQUO WALKED TOO LATE,
WHOM YOU MAY SAY, IF 'T PLEASE YOU,
FLEANCE KILLED, FOR FLEANCE FLED.
MEN MUST NOT WALK TOO LATE.
WHO CANNOT WANT THE THOUGHT,
HOW MONSTROUS IT WAS FOR MALCOLM AND FOR DONALBAIN
TO KILL THEIR GRACIOUS FATHER?
DAMN'D FACT.
HOW IT DID GRIEVE MACBETH.
DID HE NOT STRAIGHT IN PIOUS RAGE
THE TWO DELINQUENTS TEAR,
THAT WERE THE SLAVES OF DRINK AND THRALLS OF SLEEP?
WAS NOT THAT NOBLY DONE? AYE, AND WISELY TOO.
FOR 'TWOULD HAVE ANGERED ANY HEART ALIVE
TO HEAR THE MEN DENY IT.
SO THAT, I SAY,
HE HAS BORNE ALL THINGS WELL,
AND I DO THINK THAT HAD HE DUNCAN'S SONS UNDER HIS KEY--
AND, AS PLEASE HEAVEN, HE SHALL NOT--
THEY SHOULD FIND WHAT 'TWERE TO KILL A FATHER;
SO SHOULD FLEANCE.
BUT PEACE, FOR FROM BROAD WORDS AND 'CAUSE
HE FAILED HIS PRESENCE AT THE TYRANT'S FEAST,
I HEAR MACDUFF LIVES IN DISGRACE.
SIR, CAN YOU TELL WHERE HE BESTOWS HIMSELF?
THE SON OF DUNCAN,
FROM WHOM THIS TYRANT HOLDS THE DUE OF BIRTH,
LIVES IN THE ENGLISH COURT
AND IS RECEIVED OF THE MOST PIOUS EDWARD WITH SUCH GRACE
THAT THE MALEVOLENCE OF FORTUNE
NOTHING TAKES FROM HIS HIGH RESPECT.
THITHER MACDUFF IS GONE TO PRAY THE HOLY KING,
UPON HIS AIDE
TO WAKE NORTHUMBERLAND AND WARLIKE SIWARD,
THAT BY THE HELP OF THESE--
WITH HIM ABOVE TO RATIFY THE WORK--
WE MAY AGAIN GIVE TO OUR TABLES MEAT,
SLEEP TO OUR NIGHTS,
FREE FROM OUR FEASTS AND BANQUETS BLOODY KNIVES,
DO FAITHFUL HOMAGE AND RECEIVE FREE HONORS--
ALL OF WHICH WE PINE FOR NOW.
AND THIS REPORT HATH SO EXASPERATE THEIR KING
THAT HE PREPARES FOR SOME ATTEMPT OF WAR.
SENT HE TO MACDUFF?
HE DID.
AND WITH AN ABSOLUTE "SIR, NOT I,"
THE CLOUDY MESSENGER TURNS ME HIS BACK AND HUMS,
AS WHO SHOULD SAY,
"YOU'LL RUE THE TIME THAT CLOGS ME WITH THIS ANSWER."
THAT MIGHT WELL ADVISE HIM TO A CAUTION,
TO HOLD WHAT DISTANCE HIS WISDOM CAN PROVIDE.
SOME HOLY ANGEL FLY TO THE COURT OF ENGLAND,
AND UNFOLD HIS MESSAGE ERE HE COME,
THAT A SWIFT BLESSING MAY SOON RETURN
TO THIS OUR SUFFERING COUNTRY
UNDER A HAND ACCURSED!
SAW YOU THE WEIRD SISTERS?
NO, MY LORD.
CAME THEY NOT BY YOU?
NO INDEED, MY LORD.
INFECTED BE THE AIR WHEREON THEY RIDE,
AND DAMN'D ALL THOSE THAT TRUST THEM!
I DID HEAR THE GALLOPING OF HORSE.
WHO WAS IT CAME BY?
'TIS TWO OR THREE, MY LORD, THAT BRING YOU WORD
MACDUFF IS FLED TO ENGLAND.
FLED TO ENGLAND?
AYE, MY GOOD LORD.
TIME, THOU ANTICIPATEST MY DREAD EXPLOITS.
FROM THIS MOMENT, THE VERY FIRSTLINGS OF MY HEART
SHALL BE THE FIRSTLINGS OF MY HAND.
AND EVEN NOW, TO CROWN MY THOUGHTS WITH ACTS,
BE IT THOUGHT AND DONE.
THE CASTLE OF MACDUFF I WILL SURPRISE, SEIZE UPON FIFE,
GIVE TO THE EDGE OF THE SWORD HIS WIFE,
HIS BABES,
AND ALL UNFORTUNATE SOULS THAT TRACE HIM IN HIS LINE.
NO BOASTING LIKE A FOOL.
THIS DEED I'LL DO BEFORE THIS PURPOSE COOL.
WHAT HAD HE DONE, TO MAKE HIM FLY THE LAND?
YOU MUST HAVE PATIENCE, MADAM.
HE HAD NONE. HIS FLIGHT WAS MADNESS.
[baby crying]
WHEN OUR ACTIONS DO NOT, OUR FEARS DO MAKE US TRAITORS.
YOU KNOW NOT WHETHER IT WAS HIS WISDOM OR HIS FEAR.
WISDOM?
TO LEAVE HIS WIFE,
TO LEAVE HIS BABES, HIS MANSION, AND HIS TITLES
IN A PLACE FROM WHENCE HIMSELF DOES FLY?
HE LOVES US NOT; HE WANTS THE NATURAL TOUCH.
FOR THE POOR WREN, THE MOST DIMINUTIVE OF BIRDS,
WILL FIGHT, HER YOUNG ONES IN HER NEST,
AGAINST THE OWL.
ALL IS THE FEAR, AND NOTHING IS THE LOVE!
AS LITTLE IS THE WISDOM,
WHERE THE FLIGHT SO RUNS AGAINST ALL REASON.
MY DEAREST COZ,
I PRAY YOU SCHOOL YOURSELF.
BUT FOR YOUR HUSBAND,
HE IS NOBLE, WISE, JUDICIOUS,
AND BEST KNOWS THE FITS OF THE SEASON.
I DARE NOT SPEAK MUCH FURTHER.
BUT CRUEL ARE THE TIMES WHEN WE ARE TRAITORS,
AND DO NOT KNOW OURSELVES,
WHEN WE HOLD RUMOR FROM WHAT WE FEAR,
YET KNOW NOT WHAT WE FEAR,
BUT FLOAT UPON A WILD AND VIOLENT SEA EACH WAY,
AND NONE.
I TAKE MY LEAVE OF YOU.
SHALL NOT BE LONG BUT I'LL BE HERE AGAIN.
THINGS AT THE WORST WILL CEASE,
OR ELSE CLIMB UPWARD TO WHAT THEY WERE BEFORE.
MY PRETTY COUSIN, BLESSING UPON YOU.
FATHER'D HE IS, AND YET HE'S FATHERLESS.
I AM SO MUCH A FOOL, SHOULD I STAY LONGER,
IT WOULD BE MY DISGRACE AND YOUR DISCOMFORT.
I TAKE MY LEAVE AT ONCE.
SIRRAH, YOUR FATHER IS DEAD.
AND WHAT WILL YOU DO NOW? HOW WILL YOU LIVE?
AS THE BIRDS DO, MOTHER.
WHAT, WITH WORMS AND FLIES?
WITH WHAT I GET, I MEAN, AND SO DO THEY.
POOR BIRD,
THOU'DST NEVER FEAR THE NET NOR LIME,
THE PITFALL NOR THE GIN.
WHY SHOULD I, MOTHER?
POOR BIRDS, THEY ARE NOT SET FOR.
MY FATHER IS NOT DEAD, FOR ALL YOUR SAYING.
YES, HE IS DEAD.
HOW WILT THOU DO FOR A FATHER?
NAY, HOW WILL YOU DO FOR A HUSBAND?
WHY, I CAN BUY ME 20 AT ANY MARKET.
THEN YOU'LL BUY 'EM TO SELL AGAIN.
THOU SPEAK'ST WITH ALL THY WIT,
AND YET, IN FAITH...
'TIS WIT ENOUGH FOR THEE.
WAS MY FATHER A TRAITOR, MOTHER?
AYE, THAT HE WAS.
WHAT IS A TRAITOR?
WHY, ONE THAT SWEARS AND LIES.
AND BE ALL TRAITORS THAT DO SO?
EVERY ONE THAT DOES SO IS A TRAITOR,
AND MUST BE HANGED.
AND MUST THEY ALL BE HANGED THAT SWEAR AND LIE?
EVERY ONE.
WHO MUST HANG THEM?
WHY, THE HONEST MEN.
THEN THE LIARS AND SWEARERS ARE FOOLS,
FOR THERE ARE LIARS AND SWEARERS ENOW
TO BEAT THE HONEST MEN AND HANG UP THEM.
[laughs]
NOW GOD HELP THEE, POOR MONKEY.
BUT HOW WILT THOU DO FOR A FATHER?
IF HE WERE DEAD, YOU'D WEEP FOR HIM.
IF YOU WOULD NOT, IT WERE A GOOD SIGN
THAT I SHOULD QUICKLY HAVE A NEW FATHER.
POOR PRATTLER, HOW THOU TALK'ST!
[footsteps approaching]
BLESS YOU, FAIR DAME.
I AM NOT TO YOU KNOWN,
THOUGH IN YOUR STATE OF HONOR I AM PERFECT.
I DOUBT SOME DANGER DOES APPROACH YOU NEARLY.
IF YOU WILL TAKE A HOMELY MAN'S ADVICE,
BE NOT FOUND HERE.
WELL, HENCE WITH YOUR LITTLE ONES!
TO FRIGHT YOU THUS, METHINKS I AM TOO SAVAGE.
TO DO WORSE TO YOU WERE FELL CRUELTY,
WHICH IS TOO NIGH YOUR PERSON.
WELL, HEAVEN PRESERVE YOU!
I DARE ABIDE NO LONGER.
WHITHER SHOULD I FLY?
I HAVE DONE NO HARM.
BUT I REMEMBER NOW I AM IN THIS EARTHLY WORLD--
WHERE TO DO HARM IS OFTEN LAUDABLE,
TO DO GOOD SOMETIME ACCOUNTED DANGEROUS FOLLY.
WHY, THEN, ALAS, DO I PUT UP THAT WOMANLY DEFENSE,
TO SAY I HAVE DONE NO HARM?
WHAT ARE THESE FACES?
WHERE'S YOUR HUSBAND?
I HOPE IN NO PLACE SO UNSANCTIFIED
WHERE SUCH AS THOU MAYST FIND HIM.
HE'S A TRAITOR.
THOU LIEST, THOU SHAG-EAR'D VILLAIN!
WHAT, YOU EGG?
[yelling]
[yelling
[boy screaming]
YOUNG FRY OF TREACHERY.
[muffled sobbing]
[Lady Macduff screaming]
LET US SEEK OUT SOME DESOLATE SHADE,
AND THERE WEEP OUR SAD BOSOMS EMPTY.
LET US RATHER HOLD FAST THE MORTAL SWORD,
AND LIKE GOOD MEN BESTRIDE OUR DOWNFALL'N BIRTHDOM.
EACH NEW MORN
NEW WIDOWS HOWL, NEW ORPHANS CRY,
NEW SORROWS STRIKE HEAVEN ON THE FACE,
THAT IT RESOUNDS AS IF IT FELT WITH SCOTLAND
AND YELLED OUT LIKE SYLLABLE OF DOLOR.
WHAT I BELIEVE, I'LL WAIL;
WHAT KNOW, BELIEVE.
AND WHAT I CAN REDRESS,
AS I SHALL FIND THE TIME TO FRIEND, I WILL.
WHAT YOU HAVE SPOKE, IT MAY BE SO PERCHANCE.
THIS TYRANT, WHOSE SOLE NAME BLISTERS OUR TONGUES,
WAS ONCE THOUGHT HONEST.
YOU HAVE LOVED HIM WELL.
HE HATH NOT TOUCHED YOU YET.
I AM YOUNG,
BUT SOMETHING YOU MAY DESERVE OF HIM THROUGH ME,
AND WISDOM TO OFFER UP A WEAK, POOR, INNOCENT LAMB
TO APPEASE AN ANGRY GOD.
I AM NOT TREACHEROUS.
BUT MACBETH IS!
A GOOD AND VIRTUOUS NATURE MAY RECOIL AT AN IMPERIAL CHARGE.
BUT I SHALL CRAVE YOUR PARDON.
THAT WHICH YOU ARE, MY THOUGHTS CANNOT TRANSPOSE.
ANGELS ARE BRIGHT STILL, THOUGH THE BRIGHTEST FELL.
THOUGH ALL THINGS FOUL WOULD WEAR THE BROWS OF GRACE,
YET GRACE MUST STILL LOOK SO.
I HAVE LOST MY HOPES.
PERCHANCE EVEN THERE WHERE I DID FIND MY DOUBTS.
WHY IN THAT RAWNESS LEFT YOU WIFE AND CHILD,
THOSE PRECIOUS MOTIVES,
THOSE STRONG KNOTS OF LOVE, WITHOUT LEAVE-TAKING?
I PRAY YOU,
LET NOT MY JEALOUSIES BE YOUR DISHONORS,
BUT MINE OWN SAFETIES.
YOU MAY BE RIGHTLY JUST, WHATEVER I SHALL THINK.
BLEED, BLEED, POOR COUNTRY.
GREAT TYRANNY, LAY THOU THY BASIS SURE,
FOR GOODNESS DARE NOT CHECK THEE.
WEAR THOU THY WRONGS,
THE TITLE... IS AFEARED.
FARE THEE WELL, LORD.
I WOULD NOT BE THE VILLAIN THAT THOU THINK'ST
FOR THE WHOLE SPACE THAT'S IN THE TYRANT'S GRASP
AND THE RICH EAST TO BOOT.
BE NOT OFFENDED.
I SPEAK NOT AS IN ABSOLUTE FEAR OF YOU.
I THINK OUR COUNTRY SINKS BENEATH THE YOKE.
IT WEEPS.  IT BLEEDS.
AND EACH NEW DAY A GASH IS ADDED TO HER WOUNDS.
I THINK WITHAL
THERE WOULD BE HANDS UPLIFTED IN MY RIGHT.
AND HERE FROM GRACIOUS ENGLAND
HAVE I OFFER OF GOODLY THOUSANDS.
BUT, FOR ALL THIS,
WHEN I SHALL TREAD UPON THE TYRANT'S HEAD,
OR WEAR IT ON MY SWORD,
YET MY POOR COUNTRY SHALL HAVE MORE VICES
THAN IT HAD BEFORE.
MORE SUFFER,
AND MORE SUNDRY WAYS THAN EVER,
BY HIM THAT SHALL SUCCEED.
WHAT SHOULD HE BE?
IT IS MYSELF I MEAN,
IN WHOM I KNOW ALL THE PARTICULARS OF VICE
SO GRAFTED THAT WHEN THEY SHALL BE OPENED,
BLACK MACBETH WILL SEEM AS PURE AS SNOW,
AND THE POOR STATE ESTEEM HIM AS A LAMB,
BEING COMPARED WITH MY CONFINELESS HARMS.
NOT IN THE LEGIONS OF HORRID HELL
CAN COME A DEVIL MORE DAMN'D IN EVILS TO TOP MACBETH.
I GRANT HIM BLOODY, LUXURIOUS, AVARICIOUS,
FALSE, DECEITFUL, SUDDEN, MALICIOUS,
SMACKING OF EVERY SIN THAT HAS A NAME.
BUT THERE'S NO BOTTOM, NONE, IN MY VOLUPTUOUSNESS.
YOUR WIVES, YOUR DAUGHTERS, YOUR MATRONS, AND YOUR MAIDS
COULD NOT FILL UP THE CISTERN OF MY LUST,
AND MY DESIRE ALL CONTINENT IMPEDIMENTS
WOULD O'ERBEAR THAT DID OPPOSE MY WILL.
BETTER MACBETH THAN SUCH AN ONE TO REIGN.
BOUNDLESS INTEMPERANCE IN NATURE IS A TYRANNY.
IT HATH BEEN TH' UNTIMELY EMPTYING OF THE HAPPY THRONE,
AND FALL OF MANY KINGS.
BUT FEAR NOT YET
TO TAKE UPON YOU WHAT IS YOURS.
YOU MAY CONVEY YOUR PLEASURES IN A SPACIOUS PLENTY,
AND YET SEEM COLD, THE TIME YOU MAY SO HOODWINK.
WE HAVE WILLING DAMES ENOUGH.
THERE CANNOT BE THAT VULTURE IN YOU TO DEVOUR SO MANY
AS WILL TO GREATNESS DEDICATE THEMSELVES,
FINDING IT SO INCLINED.
WITH THIS,
THERE GROWS IN MY MOST ILL-COMPOSED AFFECTIONS
SUCH A STAUNCHLESS AVARICE THAT, WERE I KING,
I SHOULD CUT OFF THE NOBLES FOR THEIR LANDS,
DESIRE HIS JEWELS, THIS OTHER'S HOUSE,
AND MY MORE-HAVING WOULD BE AS A SAUCE
TO MAKE ME HUNGER MORE,
THAT I SHOULD FORGE QUARRELS UNJUST
AGAINST THE GOOD AND LOYAL, DESTROYING THEM FOR WEALTH.
THIS AVARICE STICKS DEEPER,
GROWS WITH MORE PERNICIOUS ROOT THAN SUMMER-SEEMING LUST,
AND IT HATH BEEN THE SWORD OF OUR SLAIN KINGS.
YET DO NOT FEAR.
SCOTLAND HATH FOISONS TO FILL UP YOUR WILL
OF YOUR MERE OWN.
ALL THESE ARE PORTABLE, WITH OTHER GRACES WEIGHED.
BUT I HAVE NONE.
THE KING-BECOMING GRACES-- AS JUSTICE, VERITY,
TEMP'RANCE, STABLENESS, BOUNTY, PERSEVERANCE,
MERCY, LOWLINESS, DEVOTION, PATIENCE, COURAGE, FORTITUDE--
I HAVE NO RELISH OF THEM,
BUT ABOUND IN THE DIVISION OF EACH SEVERAL CRIME,
ACTING IT MANY WAYS.
NAY, HAD I POWER,
I SHOULD POUR THE SWEET MILK OF CONCORD INTO HELL,
UPROAR THE UNIVERSAL PEACE, CONFOUND ALL UNITY ON EARTH.
OH, SCOTLAND, SCOTLAND.
IF SUCH A ONE BE FIT TO GOVERN, SPEAK.
I AM AS I HAVE SPOKEN.
FIT TO GOVERN? NO, NOT TO LIVE!
O NATION MISERABLE!
WITH AN UNTITLED TYRANT BLOODY-SCEPTRED,
WHEN SHALT THOU SEE THY WHOLESOME DAYS AGAIN,
SINCE THAT THE TRUEST ISSUE OF THY THRONE
BY HIS OWN INTERDICTION STANDS ACCUSED,
AND DOES BLASPHEME HIS BREED?
THY ROYAL FATHER WAS A MOST SAINTED KING.
THE QUEEN THAT BORE THEE,
OFTENER UPON HER KNEES THAN ON HER FEET,
DIED EVERY DAY SHE LIVED.
FARE THEE WELL.
THESE EVILS THAT THOU REPEAT'ST UPON THYSELF
HATH BANISHED ME FROM SCOTLAND!
OH, MY BREAST, THY HOPE ENDS HERE.
MACDUFF, THIS NOBLE PASSION,
CHILD OF INTEGRITY,
HATH FROM MY SOUL WIPED THE BLACK SCRUPLES,
RECONCILED MY THOUGHTS TO THY GOOD TRUTH AND HONOR.
DEVILISH MACBETH BY MANY OF THESE TRAINS
HAS SOUGHT TO WIN ME INTO HIS POWER,
AND MODEST WISDOM PLUCKS ME FROM OVERCREDULOUS HASTE.
BUT GOD ABOVE DEAL BETWEEN THEE AND ME.
FOR EVEN NOW I PUT MYSELF TO THY DIRECTION,
AND UNSPEAK MINE OWN DETRACTION,
HERE ABJURE THE TAINTS AND BLAMES I LAID UPON MYSELF,
FOR STRANGERS TO MY NATURE.
I AM YET UNKNOWN TO WOMAN,
NEVER WAS FORSWORN,
SCARCELY HAVE COVETED WHAT WAS MINE OWN,
AT NO TIME BROKE MY FAITH,
WOULD NOT BETRAY THE DEVIL TO HIS FELLOW,
AND DELIGHT NO LESS IN TRUTH THAN LIFE.
MY FIRST FALSE SPEAKING WAS THIS UPON MYSELF.
WHAT I AM TRULY IS THINE AND MY POOR COUNTRY'S TO COMMAND,
WHITHER INDEED, BEFORE THY HERE-APPROACH,
GOOD SIWARD,
AND 10,000 WARLIKE MEN ALREADY AT A POINT,
WERE SETTING FORTH.
NOW WE'LL TOGETHER,
AND THE CHANCE OF GOODNESS BE LIKE OUR WARRANTED QUARREL.
WHY ARE YOU SILENT?
SUCH WELCOME AND UNWELCOME THINGS AT ONCE...
'TIS HARD TO RECONCILE.
SEE WHO COMES HERE!
MY COUNTRYMAN, BUT YET I KNOW HIM NOT.
MY EVER GENTLE COUSIN, WELCOME HITHER.
I KNOW HIM NOW.
GOOD GOD BETIMES REMOVE THE MEANS
THAT MAKE US STRANGERS.
SIR, AMEN.
STANDS SCOTLAND WHERE IT DID?
ALAS, POOR COUNTRY, ALMOST AFRAID TO KNOW ITSELF.
IT CANNOT BE CALLED OUR MOTHER, BUT OUR GRAVE,
WHERE NOTHING BUT WHO KNOWS NOTHING
IS ONCE SEEN TO SMILE;
WHERE SIGHS, AND GROANS AND SHRIEKS THAT RENT THE AIR
ARE MADE, NOT MARKED;
WHERE VIOLENT SORROW SEEMS A MODERN ECSTASY.
THE DEAD MAN'S KNELL IS THERE SCARCE ASK'D FOR WHO,
AND GOOD MEN'S LIVES EXPIRE
BEFORE THE FLOWERS IN THEIR CAPS,
DYING OR ERE THEY SICKEN.
OH, RELATION.
TOO NICE, AND YET TOO TRUE.
WHAT'S THE NEWEST GRIEF?
THAT OF AN HOUR'S AGE DOTH HISS THE SPEAKER.
EACH MINUTE TEEMS A NEW ONE.
HOW DOES MY WIFE?
WELL.
AND ALL MY CHILDREN?
WELL TOO.
THE TYRANT HAS NOT BATTERED AT THEIR PEACE?
NO, THEY WERE WELL AT PEACE WHEN I DID LEAVE 'EM,
BE NOT A NIGGARD OF YOUR SPEECH.
HOW GOES 'T?
WHEN I CAME HITHER TO TRANSPORT THE TIDINGS,
WHICH I HAVE HEAVILY BORNE, THERE RAN A RUMOR
OF MANY WORTHY FELLOWS THAT WERE OUT,
WHICH WAS TO MY BELIEF WITNESSED THE RATHER,
FOR THAT I SAW THE TYRANT'S POWER AFOOT.
NOW IS THE TIME OF HELP.
YOUR EYE IN SCOTLAND WOULD CREATE SOLDIERS,
MAKE OUR WOMEN FIGHT TO DOFF THEIR DIRE DISTRESSES.
BE 'T THEIR COMFORT WE ARE COMING THITHER.
GRACIOUS ENGLAND
HATH LENT US GOOD SIWARD AND 10,000 MEN,
AN OLDER AND A BETTER SOLDIER NONE
THAT CHRISTENDOM GIVES OUT.
WOULD I COULD ANSWER THIS COMFORT WITH THE LIKE.
BUT I HAVE WORDS
THAT WOULD BE HOWLED OUT IN THE DESERT AIR,
WHERE HEARING SHOULD NOT LATCH THEM.
WHAT CONCERN THEY?
THE GENERAL CAUSE?
OR IS IT A FEE-GRIEF DUE TO SOME SINGLE BREAST?
NO MIND THAT'S HONEST BUT IN IT SHARES SOME WOE,
THOUGH THE MAIN PART PERTAINS TO YOU ALONE.
IF IT BE MINE, KEEP IT NOT FROM ME.
QUICKLY LET ME HAVE IT.
LET NOT YOUR EARS DESPISE MY TONGUE FOREVER,
THAT SHALL POSSESS THEM
WITH THE HEAVIEST SOUND THAT EVER YET THEY HEARD.
HMM. I GUESS AT IT.
YOUR CASTLE IS SURPRISED,
YOUR WIFE AND BABES SAVAGELY SLAUGHTERED.
TO RELATE THE MANNER, WERE ON THE QUARRY
OF THESE MURDERED DEER TO ADD THE DEATH OF YOU.
MERCIFUL HEAVEN!
WHAT, MAN,
NE'ER PULL YOUR HAT UPON YOUR BROWS.
GIVE SORROW WORDS.
THE GRIEF THAT DOES NOT SPEAK
WHISPERS THE O'ER-FRAUGHT HEART AND BIDS IT BREAK.
[whispering] My children too?
WIFE, CHILDREN, SERVANTS,
ALL THAT COULD BE FOUND.
AND I MUST BE FROM THENCE.
MY WIFE...
KILLED TOO?
I HAVE SAID.
BE COMFORTED.
LET'S MAKE US MEDICINES OF OUR GREAT REVENGE
TO CURE THIS DEADLY GRIEF.
HE HAS NO CHILDREN!
All...
my pretty ones?
Did you say...
all?
O hell-kite!
All?
What?
All my pretty chickens, and their dam,
at one fell swoop?
DISPUTE IT LIKE A MAN.
I SHALL DO SO.
BUT I MUST ALSO...
FEEL IT...
AS A MAN.
I CANNOT BUT REMEMBER SUCH THINGS WERE,
THAT WERE MOST PRECIOUS TO ME.
DID HEAVEN LOOK ON,
AND WOULD NOT TAKE THEIR PART?
SINFUL MACDUFF!
They were all struck for thee.
NAUGHT THAT I AM, NOT FOR THEIR OWN DEMERITS,
BUT FOR MINE, FELL SLAUGHTER ON THEIR SOULS!
HEAVEN, REST THEM NOW.
BE THIS THE WHETSTONE OF YOUR SWORD.
LET GRIEF CONVERT TO ANGER.
BLUNT NOT THE HEART; ENRAGE IT.
I COULD PLAY THE WOMAN WITH MINE EYES
AND BRAGGART WITH MY TONGUE!
BUT GENTLE HEAVENS!
CUT SHORT ALL INTERMISSION.
FRONT TO FRONT, BRING THOU THIS FIEND OF SCOTLAND AND MYSELF!
WITHIN MY SWORD'S LENGTH SET HIM.
IF HE 'SCAPE,
HEAVEN...
FORGIVE HIM TOO!
THIS TUNE GOES MANLY.
COME.
GO WE TO THE KING.
OUR POWER IS READY;
OUR LACK IS NOTHING BUT OUR LEAVE.
MACBETH IS RIGHT FOR SHAKING,
AND THE POWERS ABOVE PUT ON THEIR INSTRUMENTS.
RECEIVE WHAT CHEER YOU MAY,
THE NIGHT IS LONG THAT NEVER FINDS THE DAY.